Good evening, I am Tibor Exterda, the speaker of the Arena. Here in the studio is András Sifer, former MP and MP representative of the National Assembly. Good afternoon, thank you for accepting my invitation. Good afternoon. Today, the world can see how the geopolitical relations of the Russian-Ukrainian war are being formed. It has been going on since February 24th last year and it is not over. I think that the Russian-Ukrainian war is not Putin's aggression that is forming the geopolitical relations. I would put the facts in another way. Putin's aggression, the Russian-Ukrainian war, or the new Cold War that was formed between East and West after February 24th, 2022, this was only an explicit, visible geopolitical rearrangement. And it has catalyzed processes in world politics, but not in itself. This war, or Putin's aggression, caused the rearrangement. But if this catalyzes, makes visible, where did it start? What has become visible now? I'm sorry if I'm being very philosophical, but I think that even though we are still in the class of the time, we belong to this class, I graduated in 1989, even though we studied history in a very didactic way, the historical changes cannot be reduced to one exact event or one exact date. I mean all the history books we studied at that time. This is a process that started after the Second World War in the late 20th century. It was there at the end of the Cold War, in the Pax Americana decades, in the 90s, but the United States was not only a military, but also an economic dominance. This was continued. I'm a bit of a colleague, but I was too brave to say that this process started after the Second World War. Let's stay in the fact that around 1960, the Germanic empires were clearly colliding. Then, after Mao's death, China took a completely new type of development direction compared to the previous decades. Then the processes that led to the current crisis started. And obviously, after the Cold War, when the end of history sounds like a joke, this is the Pax Americana era, when it seemed that there was no way forward, China's rise to power was actually re-emphasized in the 90s. And the processes that lead to today's transition started, even if on the surface of the 90s it seemed that the United States was practically taking over most of the globe. But does the rise of China's power bring the Russians in a situation where they will also step on the Ukrainian warpath after the Crimea? I don't think that this will cause the rise of the Chinese in itself. Undoubtedly, for Putin to take a more aggressive stance than before, many factors were needed. For example, after the collapse of the 90s, Putin will consolidate Russia in the next thousand years. And of course, Russia must not be the only one. And in this respect, China is an important supporter, but I note that China and Russia are not necessarily interested in being together. So, in other words, I would like to point out that the process that led to the so-called West, or the United States of America, can only take a small part of the globe, both in terms of population and area, and a much smaller part of the world's GDP, compared to how it did in the 90s. This is a process that has been brought back by the roots, at least until the 60s. But militarily, the United States of America can still take a significant part of the globe. That's why there is this new Cold War. Can it be called a Cold War? I think it is. I think it is. So, when it's not just about turning off the Russians from the international payment system, and blocking trade relations with Russia, but it is also on the agenda that Russia is also introduced into direct sanctions policy, when it is said that the Russians and the Chinese are not completely independent from the movement, that the French from the West Africa, and even the French are being expelled from the East African continent, when it is said that the BRICS countries are founding a parallel world bank, which is named after the former president of Brazil, and a Russian woman, and I can continue the story. These are all steps that are closely related to the situation that the two world systems were experiencing between 1945 and 1990. Who has more cards, between the two world systems, the West or the non-West? What is the difference between the West and the non-West? In this question, there is an important answer, although I cannot say that I can give a completely exact answer to this question. In itself, the West, and anyone can be defined who is here, so except for NATO and EU member states, this is roughly South Korea, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Canada? NATO and EU. South Canada? Yes. Israel's situation is already not entirely clear from this point of view, under Netanyahu's government. But while the movement of the West is quite organized and clear, and at least on the surface, there are some interesting things, everything that is not the West is not only a result of military conflicts, the conflicts between India and Pakistan, and China, although I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is also a development, and it is no coincidence that with the help of the Chinese, they managed to reconcile at least at the moment with Saudi Arabia and Iran. This is a very important development from the past few months. But culturally, in terms of social organization, this is an extremely heterogeneous triangle. So there are South American democracies, South Africa, India, which are more or less parliamentary democracies, there is an autocratic system like Russia, and there is a totalitarian dictatorship, more or less, like China or Iran. But this also means that everything that is not the West, which is the BRICS or BRICS zone, the Moon Palace, is an extremely heterogeneous triangle. But I can roughly sum up that the only thing that connects these countries, and time will tell whether this is enough or not for them, is that they do not want to be part of a fundamentally American-based global enterprise empire. Isn't democracy an export? Does the business count? Do they oppose global enterprise empires? Do they want to make their own? I think we are approaching the core of the current geopolitical situation, in my opinion. So, in fact, contrary to the great conflicts of the 19th and 20th centuries, there are countries and groups of countries that want to divide the world between themselves. I think what we are seeing now, and what direction the development of global capitalism has taken, typically after the Cold War, in the last 30-40 years, is a new paradigm. And in this new paradigm, this second, this new Cold War can be understood. Namely, there is a world-sized battle between factions. I mean that on one side, and I will simplify my statement, on one side there is the global big pot, which primarily uses the US state-by-state capacity, but also the capacity of the Western countries, of course, and uses it. I usually say that what they see as corruption in the center, in the periphery, is nothing more than when politics takes away the economy. In contrast, there is corruption that we see in the West, when the economy takes away the politics. In a closed-minded way. The other small faction, which I will mention, which does not specifically identify the countries I mentioned before, the BRICS countries, or the semi-peripheral European countries, is that there are national autocracies, which are basically bourgeoisie within the borders of the nation, with strong roots. This phenomenon is also present within the United States of America, or even in France. So it is present within the Western countries as well. And this is how I can describe the picture that defines world politics today. This is the clash between the global big pot and the autocracies within the borders of the nation, the bourgeoisie with strong roots. The bourgeoisie does not want to allow the global big pot to their own territories? They do not want to. I consider this a strong statement, when we see that we live in a country, where the representative of the bourgeoisie in the nation is inviting Western car manufacturers and Eastern battery factories to join forces. I would rather say that the national bourgeoisie, and this is not only in the continent, but also in the country, in the United States, Hungary, Russia, Turkey, China and India. But these so-called national bourgeoisie, national oligarchs, they do not want their benefits to be taken away by the global big pot. This can be easily described with the example of Google. So here a media empire would like to have its advertising revenue in the Czech Republic, not in the United States. Exactly, this was a big controversy in Australia two years ago. But do the national bourgeoisie have a chance against the global big pot? The name of the national bourgeoisie also includes that national bourgeoisie does not necessarily have the same interests as the national bourgeoisie. I dared to answer the previous question, that I do not claim that I have the wealth of the Czech Republic, or a future-looking lump. I cannot give a definitive answer to this, because the fate of the world, or the direction of the next decades, is exactly that, that these national bourgeoisie can create any interest alliance, which can effectively resist the progressive intentions of the global big pot, which wants to take away their benefits, which wants to reduce their areas of movement within their own country, and which wants to neutralize the international borders. This game is not over. This is exactly what this tension is about all over the planet, which unfortunately and tragically has a background similar to the ecological crisis. There is no answer to this at the moment, because we can see it on the other side as well. And the dilemma in the open question is exactly about this, that the so-called national bourgeoisie, or national autocracies, or democracies, or countries that are moving through the world, in terms of spirit, in terms of territory, in terms of economic potential, today represent a necessary force, so that the West, the global big pot, the NATO, whatever we call it, cannot realize its values without obstacles. The key to the story is that Russia did not break into the sanctions policy despite all the commitments. It was very difficult for them, they caused difficulties, but Russia did not collapse. China is not so much served by the American economic incentives as 20 years ago. If the American economic incentives, the domestic big pot have platforms, for example, the NATO, then the West has platforms? For example, the BRICS is such a platform? This question, that the BRICS is not so much a platform as the NATO. For many years they said that it would be. The question is, can it develop? I just referred to the fact that the BRICS has already created a parallel world bank, because it is already a step towards the fact that in the field of financial and trade policy, these countries are pulling up a parallel institution system, as the Soviet Union also attempted this after 1945, with the KGB, the Warsaw Pact and other related organizations. This is why I said that this is a new Cold War we are living in. The question is, can this extremely heterogeneous country, create these institutions, which I see as really tragic, while the UN and the organizations under the UN's leadership, precisely during the Cold War or the eve of the Cold War, after the Second World War, called for the international community to come to life, that these institutions represent some kind of international consensus, not only the UN, but the ILO, the WHO and all the other institutions that are in the Soviet Union and the Western missionaries. However, after the Cold War, it seems that the US-based Global Progressive Network has been going through these international institutions, and just two years after the COVID-19, it raised the suspicion that, for example, an institution like the WHO is completely outsourced to the global majority of its designated members. The WHO was not outsourced to the Chinese either. They had to be examined in Wuhan with fewer successes. But when I say that, I'm trying to... Everyone is outsourced. No, no, when they talk about global majority, I deliberately tried to make a temporary determination, that even the 19th, 20th century conflicts, were created between well-defined countries and groups of countries. Today, the focus is not on the differences between the countries, but on the differences between the different parties and the different factions. When I talk about global majority, I don't mean that the essence of the matter is that the global majority has long been separated from the international control and the international legitimacy. The global majority, as well as the different groups of majority are present in China as well. Their roots are there, in the Chinese national economy as well. So, I'm saying that the picture is more complicated. In many cases, they use the national-state boundaries. The other question is that in the Chinese dictatorship, they can't reach the political power, they can't reach the political power, and they can only move under the control of the Beijing administration. And from time to time, the leaders of China disappear. Of course, they do. It's a totalitarian dictatorship. So, China is in control of its own situation. China is the leader of the non-West? It seems that the most effective and the most powerful power within the non-West, because the East is also a leader, because there is the South, and there is the very West, South America, the South-West, is China. So, we see that Russia's economic potential has remained with China. And even for the population, in the past few weeks, India has invaded China. In total, India doesn't represent that much economic power, and it can't move with such power as China. Can the Chinese geopolitical goals be respected? Western perception? Because according to the Chinese, they emphasize in their flower language that they would like to work together with everyone. No, they don't. What does this mean in Hungarian? Well, the Chinese don't want to gain a global influence, as we have seen in the past decades from the United States. In many cases, companies with defining names, and interest groups, are moving as a sheep. They enter, export democracy, they take over not only the administration, but also the media system, the influence over the intellectual property. We have seen this in the past 80 years. The Chinese want to do business, apparently, without any ideology. The most deadly weapon of the Chinese, which they usually use, is the treacherous trust. The final grass, the outlier, the ground. From Piraeus to Colombo, Sri Lanka, to the capital, why not? When do you sit among the world's orders? What do you decide? Who has more money? The ability of the national bourgeoisie to work together? What does China want? What do you decide? And I would like to add, that this is also a big question, that behind the obvious, readable, cartoonish media, how long do the global interests of the United States and the Beijing administration have to deal with each other? In other words, if I make it clear, if the US-China alliance withdraws from China, or imposes sanctions, it is not possible that this will not happen explicitly, against the West, against China, against Russia, it would lead to a financial catastrophe. In America and in China. This is what Janet Yellen says. And this is why there is a very careful game between the two actors, because the speculative stock in China is obviously not necessarily the stock in China, from the United States, from Western Europe, but at the same time, the huge Chinese growth could not have been imagined if there were no Western stock there. So the question is, where will there be an optimum in this balance, which will be a success for one or the other side in the long run? But it is not possible that the two sides recognize that it is simply possible to divide the world, Chinese and Americans, and we will divide the benefits. Can't we get this far? Because we don't hear this from the American side, China is the main enemy. We don't hear anything from the Chinese side. The Chinese are simply trying to advance in the world in another code system, and we don't hear this from the other side because what we see now is the end of something, and the end of something is the developed Pax Americana after 1990, which was a Polish world order. So what he just raised in his question that they will divide the world among themselves, I don't have a future-oriented ball, this can happen, what he raised in his question is completely logical. But let's see that the Chinese side is simply talking differently, and the American side, what he raised is also a kind of a re-settlement, because compared to North Korea and a few authoritarian dictatorships, or even Cuba, the American influence in the 90s was almost total on the planet. Compared to if they had to agree with China on the re-division of the world, this means a re-settlement, a defeat. This not only has prestige and military, but also hard economic consequences. We see this in Africa, by the way. So as they are getting out of the development in the Maghreb countries, the Americans, the West, are going to build a border. The American's imagination can change if the President becomes a Republican, and this is a basic question which President will it be? This is a basic question, but I would only assume that there will be some change, because the Trump presidency has shown that there is a war between the Trump and the other parties, and this is also the case in the United States. But in the United States there are industries which are not interested in the imperialistic construction, the free trade and the speculative Trump's accomplishments. So I will quickly turn it down. Let's say that the big car industry is not interested in the fact that the United States and the Japanese cars are being sold out of the free trade pact. But now, these are the interests of the Trump. Obviously, they have supported a president, an administration in 2016, and they will continue to support it. They are trying to stop this rush. Trump has initiated an attempt. Trump's trade war with China has been mentioned. Trump wanted to repatriate the depopulated Turks, not out of a friendship, but to restore the American economy, and to favor the small faction which is basically an inlander. So, something I can imagine, if a new Trump administration comes, then the United States will be interested in repatriating the Turks, and this will affect us in Europe. It is not certain that he will repatriate the Turks from China to America. The process has already begun that Western European companies – you see, there is still the energy crisis and the Russian-Ukrainian war – Western European companies will transfer their shares to the United States. To be an inlander? To be an inlander. If the conflict between the global bourgeoisie and the national bourgeoisie is so important that our fate is indelible, then how does the voxism and the gender problem come into picture? I think it is very simple. These are hidden ideologies. I refer to what is mentioned as voxism, vo-capitalism. It has three functions. One. I think that in the past centuries it was not as effective as the ruling classes breaking down the opposition or organizing the opposition as we see today with the vox, the identity policy. So, in Hungarian, if someone is taken to prison, beaten, killed by the enemy, they sometimes kill martyrs or even kill the opposition. But in this case, and this whole vo-circle is about this, if they channel the opposition, the energy of the opposition, if they erase the symbols that are the most emotionally saturated symbols for the system-critics of the opposition, then practically they are the most effective symbol of the world history and among the most effective of the vox. And if the voxism, the social platforms which were used by a clever trap in the past 10 years by the political public then, globally, capitalism is the most effective of the world history and the totalitarian dictators couldn't do anything to make the opposition even think in an unthinkable way. So, a thought which is challenging the system cannot appear. The vox exactly channels not the Occupy Wall Street but the other things. This happened with the different ecological movements. Much less attention is paid to what the Shell, Exxon and other oil companies are destroying on the globe and compared to this the big green attention is paid to climate change because it is too far and too abstract and too far in the stratosphere and the energies which are a challenge for the global big-big players can be channelled there. I would like to point out that the identity politics is not only for the progressives but for the populist right is also a great tool to channel the movements. So, on one hand, the identity politics of the vox and the exclusion and the isolation of the n plus one are taking the energies to a completely unthinkable place which in a better time were very accessible and could be used for the rights of the people. On the other hand, the populist right is channelling the identity politics the movements, the hatred to different emotional social groups instead of asking the national bourgeoisie even in Hungary to measure the common interests. I tried to explain it in a simple way but I don't know if I succeeded. The second function of the vox is that and I think this was the big change of the global capital after the 2008 financial crisis when the neoliberal consensus which dominated the 90s broke down all over the world that the vox is a good tool to channel the world's biggest wind turbines those who are the biggest consumers of natural resources to plunder, to exploit the global south to exploit to show up as good people. Because if someone is there at the B-point at the NMBTQIABC at the point of rise with the company logo can anyone imagine that these companies are working on the cobalt mines to destroy the lakes and forests in South America, Africa and so on. Can anyone imagine that these good people are deliberately planting planned exploitation into their various tools just to throw away your mobile phone because the sooner you use your mobile phone the more extra profit they can make. So, can we understand that vox is a tool to channel the world's biggest wind turbines to exploit the global south to exploit the global south to exploit the global south to exploit the global south to exploit the global south without any closed doors without any decision-making it is simply interesting not only to loosen the national borders but to completely neutralize the social bonds. So, that kind of propaganda that is accessible to progressivism and voxism leads to the total destruction of the open society. The policy of open society is nothing more than the policy of the destruction of the society and I come back to the first tool. If it succeeds in destroying the social bonds it is not only the fault of those who call themselves conservative who are tearing the good old world back. The destruction of social bonds is the real guarantee for the global capital to be organized. Let's see clearly that from the 19th century the workers' movement started with the political left. Those were the social bonds. Those workers' homes clubs where people met, people who were not only connected to one place but also to a profession. If there are no professional identities if there are no local identities if there is no religious traditions family bonds and so on then the global capital through the mass media and the mass media is so much more than the marketing of the world. Why do we think so much about this in Europe? We have not known the words for the past years. I see that Western Europe cannot be said to be very tolerant because Western Europe has a very receptive skill. The political basis of this was that after the Cold War I can say again that in a logical way the European left, I mean the Green Movement became the victims of a progressive social movement. In Eastern Europe the situation is different or in Central-Eastern Europe the situation is different. Central-Eastern Europe due to the development of the semi-peripheral society for this reason is less receptive to this indoctrination. What would be the solution? Professional organizations? Dalards? Like in the time of Kassák Lajos where people discussed in the evening what the situation is and what to do. Self-organization? Yes, the solution starts in a small place. On the one hand, self-organization without taking one of the entrenching actions the green discrimination. You can be responsible for the destruction of the planet. I can still say that individual responsibility is a big role. For example, I already face the fact that they want to destroy my devices and I use my phone until it stops to face the fact that they want to take away my cash. There are thousands of things that we can do in our own way but the real solution is self-organization. The real solution is to recognize the value of the place and to stick to the local communities. We try to organize local communities. Because in fact, the state is still a last line of defense before the global collapse. There are still strong local communities within the state. If we can resist, let's stand up for the global collapse. What should we do with our own national bourgeoisie? Who will stand up for a working and collapsing state? It is still there. But the development after the Cold War is still a world order. In the first half of the century I said that the global collapse is fighting with the national autocracies. But we can understand the story of the progressive right with the populist right. In this situation, in this world state, the local communities and the exiled people are dependent on the different groups. So somewhere, both of them, the populist right cannot necessarily use the weapon of de-channelization with the anti-Komlok-straight-line or the vocism. Or let's not go into this. Because the national autocracies are not interested in the poor majority counting the rich and the poor. So what one and the other calls corruption, on one side the political power is suppressing the public interest, on the other side the economy is suppressing the public institutions and the democratic decision-making. The both sides have the same goal to make the rich and the poor live well. Neither of them is interested in the poor majority becoming organized. But everyone who is not among the rich and the poor is interested in the global collapse being monitored, which is not making the planet perfectly inalienable simply because of its own internal laws. On the other hand everyone is interested in the countable national bourgeoisie, national autocracies. Are the global conflicts and disputes being suppressed in the country's politics? Of course. Are we following them? Are we taking over? Well, like a decent semi-peripheral country, it is not legal. Why is it interesting to us? Why is it being taken over by the country's politics? Well, mainly because there are many reasons. These are not conscious interpretations. The Hungarian history has been talking about the dependence of thousands of countries on what is happening in the world politics, in Europe. There is no novelty in this. Are we taking over the European conflicts? Or are we monitoring the American ones? We are talking about monitoring. Mainly when our own Hungarian political public is deeply involved in the globalized public whose focus is on social platforms. When every radio channel, TV channel gets as many likes on social media. So what is the question? Should I go further? The question is how to prevent the world's political events from being served in the wild by countries with such a dependent energy system whose production capacities are largely foreign. How not to serve them? And of course, we have not even talked about the fact that Hungary has a party which is against the Hungarian transition. Or against Kurucz Labanc. This is not a purely Hungarian phenomenon. It is a Central European phenomenon. A semi-peripheral phenomenon where for centuries the opinion has always been that the fate of the country means that without questioning and maintaining it, we follow the West. This is the following foreign policy. And the uproar is the opposite that it causes the loss of the nation if we serve the West in everything. And there is some truth in both positions. But which West do we follow? The United States of America? Germany, with which we have the most economic relations? The Union? What is the sample? In the years of the Hungarian transition this was a small sentence in several parts of the Transitional Parliament. The first one was the former SZK Germany. So this has historical traditions. At the same time in the past years it is obvious that in global politics Germany and the EU are not independent actors. They are completely subordinate to the interests of the EU. This is what Ferenc Pápa and Emmanuel Macron have said in the past weeks. The Union as an organization or the countries of the Union? I cannot disassemble this. Because I am more and more drawn to the fact that in the last years the even more strict integration and the laziness of the EU is actually a result of the fact that the more a Brussels centre is declared the more the EU can hold the US administration in its hands, for example, for the US lobbyists. Don't you see any reason for the EU to create its own global companies? Its own Facebook? Its own Google? Its own media? If you think about it I have not seen any effort in the last years. Europe has its own or its own or its own global companies in Germany, France or Germany. But when I said that the nature of the global capital is that it will eventually escape the rule of law of the nation state, this is exactly what happened. So the capital interests of Germany, France, let's see what kind of investment they got from this. These are not German or French interests in the first place. The owners' interests. The investors' interests. And the big players, if we think about BlackRock or Vanguard, these are the big players of casino capitalism. This is the global big hole of the US, but let me mention something positive. This is exactly what Macron said in Beijing or when he came back from Beijing. He said that Europe should not be a slave. This means that in one of the big powers of the EU, this intention is seriously being expressed. It is not impossible that in France, because even during the Cold War, the foreign policy of De Gaulle and Mitterrand was significantly different or liked to be different from the NATO's main line. They did not even say that, I think, their military power was De Gaulle's general and azimuth-based military power. There will be elections in the future in Hungary, internal politics will follow. Almost a year ago he said that a significant positional war is expected between the DK and Momentum. No, it happened. Sorry to ask you back. We see the strengthening of the DK, but what kind of war do you experience with Momentum? What kind of actions? Well, intellectually, let me not evaluate, but I absolutely see such a fight, that obviously Momentum or Momentum moved towards easier resistance in the sense that unfortunately they did not reach it and not only Momentum, but the six-party coalition and its court that they are so much interested in the testimony of the outstanding resistance, that they try to change the absolute war mode. And not even to mention, I really hate this expression, former Fidesz voters, to bring back voters who even in 2018 voted for some of the six-party opponents. Momentum did not choose this path. The cordon-bont circus and these violent events and gestures, which at least are about the tragic situation of public education, and at least try to offer an alternative. I know that perhaps only our country gave specific suggestions, for example, regarding the status law. But in one aspect, Momentum's behavior is rational. Historically, even when there was a small resistance within the DK, the opposition was militarized. I felt this with my own skin before 2016. Then, after 2018, I put it this way, the opposition outside the DK joined the DK. They radicalized the DK. So Momentum chose a path that is easy to reach, and with these very aggressive militant actions, gestures, they are not loyal to Gyurcsány or the DK anymore, but the U1G, which is a symbol of the opposition coming into the trance, tries to bring itself through the DK into the camp of Momentum. I say this because it is a short-term, but long-term strategy, because there are many reasons why Fidesz won twice or three times. The main reason is of course Gyurcsány and his previous government, but this is not that simple. But for example, in my own experience, I do not only think of politicians, I think of official politicians. At the end of the day, I always come back to the fact that a few dozen or a few hundred thousand people are not a greater sum of a hundred thousand, but they are trying to respond to extremely fierce and aggressive tough people, and meanwhile, four years later, they wonder that hundreds of thousands would rather go to the camp of Orbán Viktor and Fidesz, which they did not like too much. But with this technique, they are seen in the news. Look, in short, I think I understand the strategy of Momentum, or the tactics, to be more precise, because in a certain way, this is the practice that I have already criticized, and I will follow them here. They were so forced that Ferenc Gyurcsány actually noticed on April 4 what I talked about here in the arena that there is an interest in the opposition, let's say the micro-donors, who are trying to put the 22nd victory in one-to-one on Gyurcsány, and outside of Gyurcsány they want a strong opposition conglomerate, the core of which is Momentum, and I have already encouraged them to take it a year ago, and personally they want to put Donald in it. Gyurcsány, rationally, started an offensive from April 4, the result of which is the shadow government, etc., and among others he began to cut off the opposition, the allies. This is the re-election season that lasted for a year. So I took back this ostobo sign to the actions of Momentum, although it is not a change of government that they are doing, but unfortunately they have become a forced path. So if they, according to their original plans, only after the election of the LPN government install Donald, they are suffering from such completely impossible actions, that, you know, after the last night's demonstration the next day they take off their cordons, sit on it, have a picnic, and then what? Then it can be easy that as long as they, so to speak, want to cut off Nagy and want to fire Donald to the flag, they may run out. And this was an answer, I think, these violent actions and this militant attack by Momentum, I can understand this as a desperate answer to how Gyurcsány, also rationally, from his point of view, went forward and did not want to wait for the micro-taxpayers and the parties supported by them to cut off the political map. How long do you think the micro-taxpayers have the patience to wait? We had a picture of this. Well, you know, I think that if someone supports or invests, then sooner or later they would like to see results, although after I watch the Hungarian NB1 weekly, now slowly the results of the Hungarian NB2 are also slowly being revised, because you see, the Hungarian football is a good example of that. It is true that some people invest money in something that they have no intention to make a profit out of it. So I'm just saying this because it seems that there is still a case of capitalist thinking. So I can't say this, but I say that the thinking that they are trying to exclude Gyurcsány from the opposition's map is only rational on their part. Obviously, without the 5-year term of Ferenc Gyurcsány, there is no Fidesz and there is no constitutional revolution after 2010. And if in 2014-2018 the opposition is Gyurcsány-free, Gyurcsány's absence would probably have meant the absence of Orbán-Viktor in 2013. I usually say that since the fall of 2006, Gyurcsány and Orbán are almost on the same level. Thank you very much. In the last hour, András Sipfer was a guest of the InfoRadio Arena. In the preparation of the show, László Illis, a responsible editor and editor-in-chief of Módos Márton, was also present.
